- Essences and Awakening Stones are physical objects manifested from the essence of magical beings.
- Essences are usually cubes, styled in a way that matches their essence–For example the Wind essence might look like a glass cube with a swirling vortex inside.
- Awakening stones are smaller and take a variety of shapes, but similar to essences, they are styled to match their origin. For example, a Star awakening stone might look like a small, blue stone with countless tiny lights inside. A Earth awakening stone might look like a small, rough stone with a deep brown color.
- The abilities granted by awakening stones depends on a number of factors – the nature of the person, the nature of the essence, the abilities already granted to a person, and the person's confluence essence. For example, a person with one or two movement abilities already awakened is rather unlikely to awaken another movement ability, even if using a awakening stone biased towards movement abilities, like a Sky awakening stone.
- A person can choose 3 essences; following that, a 4th essence will automatically be created - their confluence essence. All essence combinations will create a confluence essence, but not all combinations may be widely known.
- For each essence, including the confluence essence, up to 5 abilities can be awakened using awakening stones. These abilities can range from passive enhancements to active skills. The rarity of the stone does not directly correlate to the power of the ability awakened, simply narrows the pool of possible abilities. This is sometimes used to target specific abilities, despite being not very accurate or reliable.
- There are multiple paths to the same confluence essence. For example, (Adept, Swift, and Sword), (Foot, Knife, and Swift), (Adept, Magic, and Sword), (Adept, Gun, and Gathering) all result in the Master Confluence Essence. However, the abilities of the Master Confluence Essence would vary based on the essences that were combined to create it – specifically, in these cases, would revolve around the mastery of the sword, knife, or gun, respectively.
- There is no reliable way to predict the outcome of the skill granted by an awakening stone. However, there are ways to guide the entire set of skills towards certain outcomes. For example, using a (Wing and Swift) essence combination would highly encourage skills biased towards speed, movement, and verticality. Similarly, using an essence combination such as (Life and Renewal) would encourage skills biased towards healing and restoration.
- Abilities granted by awakening stones cannot be removed by any means except those granted directly by gods. Essences cannot be removed by any means, and a confluence essence can never be changed or removed.

---
